CARGO.ECLASS
Section: eclass-manpages (5)
Updated: Sep 2020
Index Return to Main Contents
NAME
cargo.eclass - common functions and variables for cargo builds
SUPPORTED EAPIS
6 7
FUNCTIONS
cargo_crate_uris
Generates the URIs to put in SRC_URI to help fetch dependencies.
cargo_src_unpack
Unpacks the package and the cargo registry
cargo_live_src_unpack
Runs 'cargo fetch' and vendors downloaded crates for offline use, used in live ebuilds
cargo_gen_config
Generate the $CARGO_HOME/config necessary to use our local registry and settings. Cargo can also be configured through environment variables in addition to the TOML syntax below. For each configuration key below of the form foo.bar the environment variable CARGO_FOO_BAR can also be used to define the value. Environment variables will take precedent over TOML configuration, and currently only integer, boolean, and string keys are supported. For example the build.jobs key can also be defined by CARGO_BUILD_JOBS. Or setting CARGO_TERM_VERBOSE=false in make.conf will make build quieter.
cargo_src_compile
Build the package using cargo build
cargo_src_install
Installs the binaries generated by cargo
cargo_src_test
Test the package using cargo test
ECLASS VARIABLES
CARGO_INSTALL_PATH ?= .
Allows overriding the default cwd to run cargo install from
AUTHORS
Doug Goldstein <cardoe@gentoo.org>
MAINTAINERS
rust@gentoo.org
REPORTING BUGS
Please report bugs via https://bugs.gentoo.org/
FILES
cargo.eclass
SEE ALSO
ebuild(5)
https://gitweb.gentoo.org/repo/gentoo.git/log/eclass/cargo.eclass
Index
NAME
SUPPORTED EAPIS
FUNCTIONS
ECLASS VARIABLES
AUTHORS
MAINTAINERS
REPORTING BUGS
FILES
SEE ALSO
This document was created by man2html, using the manual pages.
Time: 00:27:03 GMT, October 11, 2020