L10N.ECLASS
Section: eclass-manpages (5)
Updated: Sep 2020
Index Return to Main Contents
NAME
l10n.eclass - convenience functions to handle localizations
DESCRIPTION
The l10n (localization) eclass offers a number of functions to more conveniently handle localizations (translations) offered by packages. These are meant to prevent code duplication for such boring tasks as determining the cross-section between the user's set LINGUAS and what is offered by the package.
FUNCTIONS
l10n_for_each_locale_do <function>
Convenience function for processing localizations. The parameter should be a function (defined in the consuming eclass or ebuild) which takes an individual localization as (last) parameter.
Example: l10n_for_each_locale_do install_locale

l10n_for_each_disabled_locale_do <function>
Complementary to l10n_for_each_locale_do, this function will process locales that are disabled. This could be used for example to remove locales from a Makefile, to prevent them from being built needlessly.
l10n_find_plocales_changes <translations dir> <filename pre pattern> <filename post pattern>
Ebuild maintenance helper function to find changes in package offered locales when doing a version bump. This could be added for example to src_prepare
Example: l10n_find_plocales_changes "${S}/src/translations" "${PN}_" '.ts'

l10n_get_locales [disabled]
Determine which LINGUAS the user has enabled that are offered by the package, as listed in PLOCALES, and return them. In case no locales are selected, fall back on PLOCALE_BACKUP. When the disabled argument is given, return the disabled locales instead of the enabled ones.
strip-linguas [<allow LINGUAS>|<-i|-u> <directories of .po files>]
Make sure that LINGUAS only contains languages that a package can support. The first form allows you to specify a list of LINGUAS. The -i builds a list of po files found in all the directories and uses the intersection of the lists. The -u builds a list of po files found in all the directories and uses the union of the lists.
ECLASS VARIABLES
PLOCALES
Variable listing the locales for which localizations are offered by the package.
Example: PLOCALES="cy de el_GR en_US pt_BR vi zh_CN"

PLOCALE_BACKUP
In some cases the package fails when none of the offered PLOCALES are selected by the user. In that case this variable should be set to a default locale (usually 'en' or 'en_US') as backup.
Example: PLOCALE_BACKUP="en_US"

AUTHORS
Ben de Groot <yngwin@gentoo.org>
MAINTAINERS
Ulrich Müller <ulm@gentoo.org>
REPORTING BUGS
Please report bugs via https://bugs.gentoo.org/
FILES
l10n.eclass
SEE ALSO
ebuild(5)
https://gitweb.gentoo.org/repo/gentoo.git/log/eclass/l10n.eclass
Index
NAME
DESCRIPTION
FUNCTIONS
ECLASS VARIABLES
AUTHORS
MAINTAINERS
REPORTING BUGS
FILES
SEE ALSO
This document was created by man2html, using the manual pages.
Time: 00:27:05 GMT, October 11, 2020
