S6.ECLASS
Section: eclass-manpages (5)
Updated: Sep 2020
Index Return to Main Contents
NAME
s6.eclass - helper functions to install s6 services
DESCRIPTION
This eclass provides helpers to install s6 services.
SUPPORTED EAPIS
5 6 7
EXAMPLE
inherit s6

src_install() {
...
s6_install_service myservice "${FILESDIR}"/run-s6 "${FILESDIR}"/finish-s6
...
If you want a service to be logged, install the log service as
shown here.
s6_install_service myservice/log "${FILESDIR}"/log-run-s6 \
        "${FILESDIR}"/log-finish-s6
...
}
FUNCTIONS
s6_get_servicedir
Output the path for the s6 service directory (not including ${D}).
s6_install_service <servicename> <run> [finish]
Install an s6 service. servicename is the name of the service. run is the run script for the service. finish is the optional finish script for the service.
s6_service_down <servicename>
Install the "down" flag so this service will not be started by default. servicename is the name of the service.
s6_service_nosetsid <servicename>
Install the "nosetsid" flag so this service will not be made a session leader. servicename is the name of the service.
MAINTAINERS
William Hubbs <williamh@gentoo.org>
REPORTING BUGS
Please report bugs via https://bugs.gentoo.org/
FILES
s6.eclass
SEE ALSO
ebuild(5)
https://gitweb.gentoo.org/repo/gentoo.git/log/eclass/s6.eclass
Index
NAME
DESCRIPTION
SUPPORTED EAPIS
EXAMPLE
FUNCTIONS
MAINTAINERS
REPORTING BUGS
FILES
SEE ALSO
This document was created by man2html, using the manual pages.
Time: 00:27:04 GMT, October 11, 2020
